 
Features of task, website etc.
Example questions to ask yourself:
How likely is the email I am getting a phishing one?
What aspects of this website contribute to it being a fake website?
What precautions am I not taking before I enter in sensitive data?
Organizational factors
Examples:
Avoid making the same mistake twice
Learn from other people’s mistakes
Practice self awareness
Take this class (i.e. educating yourself)
Do some research immediately on every website that you’re about to enter sensitive data in


How likely is the email I am getting a phishing one?
It is very common for scammers to mimic what the actual company would look like. In general, I’ve learned that it is very risky to do any sort of business involving trading goods via email.

What aspects of this website contribute to it being a fake website?
Check for misspellings and other features that give the website away of being a fake and check online to see what others need to say, check with the people around you, think about whether something is too good to be true.

What precautions am I not taking before I enter in sensitive data?
This is especially important if you’re entering your bank account information. Use online tools to check if a website is legit or more likely to be legit

Take this class (i.e. educating yourself):
It is important to find resources out there to help educate and protect you and those around you

Avoid making the same mistake twice:
If you fall victim to a scam, take the necessary steps to avoid it in the future

Learn from other people’s mistakes:
This goes back to educating yourself. If you witnessed someone get scammed or hear stories of people getting scammed, learn from them and protect yourself!

Practice self awareness:
Especially when exchanging goods and money over the internet is when you should not auto-pilot and assume everything will be fine. Understand and be aware of the risks before making an exchange

Do some research immediately on every website that you’re about to enter sensitive data in:
Again, practice self awareness and make sure you know fully well that the website you enter data in is 100% legit.


