
In your current or former job, imagine that you are the manager of a large number of your fellow employees at your work.  You have seen issues with motivating the users to do the right thing regarding bogus emails (phishing), proper passwords, locking (CTRL-ALT-DEL) their computers when they leave the office, and so on.  Discuss some of the issues you may have seen in similar situations and how you would motivate your employees to do the right thing.  Also describe the steps you could take (both technical and non-technical) to get them to do the right thing.


I have several different examples of methods that I personally found very useful over the years. UCF requires students change their NID passwords every couple of months for security purposes. New passwords must be at least 12 characters (I think it's 12); the password must contain at least one capital letter, one lowercase letter, one number, and one special character. Not only that, but the next new password cannot be the same or even a similar variation of the ten previously used passwords. When I used to work at Siemens, documents that were sent over the network were encrypted at different levels (i.e. 1-3) 1 is low priority, 2 is restricted, and 3 is very restricted. Employees were expected to choose the suitable one for the currently inspected document. From a technical perspective, I think employees should sign a contract stating that if they choose to work in the current company, they must agree to the terms & conditions. One of the terms is that they must abide by all of the policies and procedures created to avoid security leaks. Failure to do so is grounds for demotion or even termination. An example of a non-technical method of handling user actions that may lead to security leaks is to have a supervisor for each small division macromanage them on how well they properly deal with avoiding security leaks and not falling victim to phishing and other scams. Those who make enough mistakes to stand out would then receive micromanagement as punishment. I am for all of these methods since at a big tech company, every one needs to perform there work in the company's best interest.
